...culiar patches known as nebulae that were inside of them. Heber Curtis spotted multiple stars in Andromeda and argued that it was a separate galaxy. His argument wasn’t concluded until 1925 when Edwin Hubble identified a special kind of star known as a Cepheid variable. A Cepheid variable is a star whose characteristics allow for exact measurements of distance within Andromeda. Since Shapley had previously determined that the Milky Way was only 100,000 light-years across, Edwin Hubble’s calculations reported that the fuzzy patches were too far away to lay within the Milky Way Galaxy.(www.crystalinks.com 1)
In this theory, planets form by slowly by collecting materials leftover from its star’s formation. The pieces crash together until they form something big enough to to have a gravitational pull strong enough to make them spherical. However this is a very slow process, and the planet, HD 106906 b, is much younger than ours, which is 4.6 billion years old. Also, this theory of planet formation happens relatively close to the star. Neptune, the planet farthest from the sun in our star system, is only 30 AU from the sun, compared to the 650 of the newly discovered planet.
This second of arc is the angular size of a pinhead that is 183 m away (wow, now thats precise, you would think). Many of the fainter stars almost seem to not move at all though because they are so far away and thats why we use them as reference stars to measure others and scientists call this proper motion. A Parallex is another apparent m... ... middle of paper ... ...rs of a fraction of a second. Its neutrinos send a shockwave out blasting most of the stars materials into space, but many of the elements get caught up in neutrinos and combine to create heavier elements. Without supernovae there would be no heavier elements than Iron-56.
Supermassive black holes are the largest type of black hole. Galaxies that have less than a billion stars are considered “small galaxies”. Galaxies are categorized according to their shape. There are three types of galaxies, which are elliptical, spiral, and irregular galaxies. Elliptical galaxies have very bright centers and little dust and gas.
Anthony Crehan, #10514 Mr. Constantinides Science 8, Period 4 April 8, 2014 Quasars and Pulsars Pulsars and Quasars Let’s start out at the very bottom; the definitions of a quasar and a pulsar. A quasar consists of a supermassive black hole surrounded by a cloud of dust that allows for focused beams of radiation. Quasars usually are only seen in moderately young galaxies, as they require a large amount of matter, commonly known as “stardust,” to keep the beam going. This energy source has to be extremely compact to give the quasar enough energy to exist. Once this fuel runs out, though, the quasar ceases to be and becomes a normal supermassive black hole.
However there are larger clouds known as giant molecular clouds which have a mass ranging from 1,000 to 1 million solar masses. They range in diameters from 20 to 200 parsecs (1pc ~ 3.26ly), making them “the largest gravitationally bound objects in the Galaxy, and the largest known objects in the Universe made of molecular material”, according to Astrophysicist Paul Ruffle of Manchester University. It is believed all stars are born within these regions of the interstellar medium and observations have shown that they are located primarily within the disk of spiral galaxies and the active regions of the irregular galaxies. Since molecular clouds are cold, dark and dusty, we cannot observe them directly in visible light. However larger wavelengths such as infrared and submillimeter (wavelengths within the range of 0.3-1mm) techniques can pass through the clouds unaffected which can make observations of a star forming.
Th... ... middle of paper ... ...y result from short-lived massive stars. They are most commonly found in type Sc spirals, but also in the arms of other spiral galaxies and in irregular galaxy, especially starburst galaxies. (”supernova”) Type Ib/c and II-L, and possibly most type IIn, supernovae are only thought to be produced from stars having near-solar metallicity levels that result in high mass loss from massive stars, hence they are less common in older more distant galaxies. The table shows the expected progenitor for the main types of core collapse supernova, and the approximate proportions of each in the local neighborhood. (”supernova”) Works Cited "Supernova."
A spiral galaxy has a distinct winding shape which is similar to a pinwheel. These waves cause new stars to form. The glow of the galaxy is composed of the stars shinning bright and size creating a bigger view. Famous spiral galaxies include the Triangulum Galaxy, Whirlpool Galaxy, Andromeda Galaxy, Sunflower Galaxy, Pinwheel Galaxy and many others that have yet been discovered. Elliptical galaxies have less of a shine compared to spiral galaxies because it consist of old stars.
There can be no doubt that Saturn is one of the most beautiful objects in the sky. The first telescopic observations of Saturn have been made by Galileo in July 1610. He saw the disk of the planet clearly, but his telescope gave only a magnification of 32 diameters and that was not good enough to show the ring system in the way we know it nowadays. Galileo thought that Saturn must be a triple planet and wrote that "Saturn is not one alone, but is composed of three, which almost touch one another.... ... middle of paper ... ...d Mimas have icy, cratered surfaces. One huge crater on Mimas has more than one-third the diameter of the satellite itself, so that, if the crater were formed by impact, it seems that Mimas would have been in danger of breaking up.
Based on recent research, 170 billion galaxies have been estimated to exist, with only tens of thousands been discovered (Deutsch, 2011). Structure of Galaxies Astronomers believe that most galaxies consist of a supermassive black hole at the center, which attracts all constituents of galaxies such as, dust, gases (mainly Hydrogen and Helium), atoms, stars, interstellar clouds and planets to the center by force of gravity, but are not sure whether all galaxies contain a black hole in the center. Galaxies keep moving in relative motion to one another and intermittently can come so close that the force of gravitational attraction between the galaxies may become strong enough to cause a change in the shape of the galaxies, while in exceptional cases, the galaxies may collide. If two galaxies collide, they may pass right through without any effect or may merge, forming strands of stars, extending beyond 100,000 light years in space (World Book Online Reference Centre, 2005). Hence, neighboring and often other colliding galaxies induce the sha... ... middle of paper ... ... on research, On 2 August 2007 approximately more than 10 million images of galaxies had been classified by the galaxy zoo program (Galaxy Zoo).
The diameter is estimated to be about 100,000 light years. The galaxy has three main components: a disk, in which the solar system resides, a central bulge at the core and an all encompassing halo. The disk of our galaxy exhibits it’s spiral structure and is part of the prominent nuclear region which is part of a notable bulge/halo component. http://www.damtp.cam.ac.uk/user/gr/public/gal_milky.html The Milky Way is categorized as a Hubble type Sb or Sc spiral. It is unclear if the galaxy has a bar in its spiral so that is why its classification is unsure.

Galaxies
Summary: Nearly all the matter in the universe is concentrated in galaxies. A galaxy is a gigantic mass of stars held together by gravity.
GALAXIES

Nearly all the matter in the universe is concentrated in galaxies. A galaxy is a gigantic mass of stars held together by gravity. The largest contain millions of stars. The smallest have just a few million, but even small galaxies are so big that light takes thousands of years to cross them. Despite having so much matter, galaxies are mostly empty space, with vast distances between each star. Our sun and all the stars we can see with the naked eye belong to just one galaxy - the Milky Way. Beyond this lie billions of galaxies stretching as far into space as astronomers can see.

Elliptical Galaxies

Most galaxies are egg-shaped (elliptical). There galaxies are made up of masses of old, red stars that all formed around the same time. Elliptical galaxies have no gas for making new stars. The elliptical galaxy M87 (left) is the largest galaxy known. It contains 3 million million stars - 15 times as many as our Milky Way. Hidden in its centre is a massive black hole.

Spiral Galaxies

The most spectacular galaxies are spiral. These spin around like giant whirlpools, spreading their stars into graceful trailing arms. The oldest stars are located in a dense central hub. The spiral arms contain young stars, pink nebulas, and dark lanes of gas and dust. Spiral galaxies are disk-shaped, so they appear flat if we see them from the side. Our Milky Way is a spiral galaxy.

Irregular Galaxies

Galaxies with no recognizable shape are called irregular. They are usually small, with lots of young stars and bright gas clouds where new stars are forming. A typical example is the Large Magellanic Cloud (right). At 160,000 light years away, it is one of the closest galaxies and is visible to the naked eye as a pale smudge. It has only 10 billion stars - our Milky Way has 20 times more. The large Magellanic Cloud is trapped by the Milky Way's gravity and orbits it every 6,000 million years. Eventually, the Milky Way's gravity will tear it apart and the two galaxies will merge.

Cosmic Collision

Most galaxies are incredibly far apart, but some get close enough to collide. This picture shows two spiral galaxies crashing into each other. Their cores are orange. Individual stars do not collide, but dust clouds do, triggering a firestorm of star birth. The clusters of newborn stars in this picture look blue. The dark areas are dust clouds. 
The Andromeda is part of the Local Group of galaxies. The Andromeda galaxy is the closest full size galaxy to the Milky Way. The Andromeda Galaxy is about four times bigger than the moon in the sky. Andromeda contains around one trillion stars. The Andromeda Galaxy is also the only galaxy noticeable to the naked eye in the Northern Hemisphere. The Andromeda Galaxy is the Milky Way's larget galactic acquaintance and is on course for a collision in the fututre.
